All right.
Now that we have all that housekeeping out of the way all the Tim Allen CSX prerequisites we can now
dive into the dam.
Very fun stuff.
We're going to start in this video with kind of a taste of the dam.
I'm going to show you some code different snippets we'll play around and tweak a web page.
And the goal is not for you to understand every line or remember it because I'm showing you code that
we'll see in this section later on or two sections from now.
We're kind of looking ahead.
So it's it's more of a sneak peek.
OK so the Document Object Model or the DOM is our window into H2 mounts the SS and the web page in general
through javascript.
It is our portal into the world of a web page so we can write JavaScript that can figure out how many
each ones are on a page or how many inputs or in a form or we can get the value from a form if a user
is typing into the form.
We can change the value of a form.
We could change images make them bigger.
We can change styles of anything we could add animations.
We can listen for clicks or drags or hovers or any sort of event that a user could trigger and then
have some behavior that happens in response a user clicks on a game piece.
And it will change color or if a user clicks and drags a chess piece when they drop that chess piece
you should check.
We should write code that checks.
Is it a valid move if it is then move that chess piece to the square.
If there's a piece there already then replace that piece and remove the captured piece from the board.
We add logic in with javascript that controls that interacts with that reads and understands the contents
of a page and the key thing to understand about all of this is the object part Document Object Model.
When you're web page loads up whatever the web pages.
This simple one that we were doing here in the last video when it loads up the browser is going to turn
it into a bunch of objects just JavaScript objects and these objects are all constructed and put together
to form the Dom.
It is a virtual representation or a javascript representation of the content on a page and it consists
of a bunch of JavaScript objects.
So I probably spent way too long making this image but we have each team LCROSS and some other stuff
that goes in and the browser interprets it it reads it and it creates the DOM for you it spits out JavaScript
objects representing the H came out and representing the CSX.
So here's a simple example of what I'm talking about.
If this was our HMO a very simple Web page we have an H1.
We have a well we have two allies.
The browser will read this in which on its own doesn't mean anything it's just text its text content
the whole job of the browser is to display it in a way that makes sense to humans to make this larger.
To make this a bullet point if it's inside of a well so the browser reads it it does all that.
And at the same time it creates a virtual representation a javascript object of the H1.
There's another object for the well another object for the ally and another for the ally.
So that's what this is representing over here.
Each one of these little circles or nodes is an object.
They're telling you that I'm an object.
Me too.
In case you had any doubts.
So there objects and those objects have a bunch of different properties.
The simplest one that we could see from here would be what their content is what text is inside the
object water plants.
OK.
So we have one that has a property called text or something like that.
It's actually called inter text set to water plants.
We also have tons of other properties for different attributes CSF styles.
We have methods that we can use so that I could delete one of these with JavaScript and it would be
deleted from my web page.
I could update one of them and change the text.
I could even change the type of element I could instead of having an H1 I could replace it with an H2.
All of that is done through javascript where we interact with these objects.
All right.
So now for the part that is the taste of the Dom a little preview of where we're going.
So among Google dot com just the regular home page I mean I just type some code in the console.
The first thing we'll see is proof that we get a bunch of objects that Dom just consists of objects.
So why don't we pick something maybe this button right here.
It is an input does it have an I.D..
It doesn't have an idea.
OK.
This one has an idea.
Is this the I'm Feeling Lucky button.
I'm going to copy this idea and use that to select that element.
So this is new.
You haven't seen it before.
Or at least not in this course.
Don't worry about it.
I hate saying that but don't.
Don't stress about what it is.
Okay.
So if I save this to a variable contact button object if I look at that button object I've selected
based off of some I.D. and I have a representation of it.
Unfortunately in the console it looks like it's not an object it looks like it's just HMO.
But if I do console dot DVR which you've seen a couple times.
Button object and open this up you can see it's just a regular javascript object.
It's massive.
It has tons of properties tons and tons of methods and properties here and they all relate to this one
button.
Let's take a look at one of them.
How about the value of the button.
If I scroll down go down to value it's set to I'm feeling lucky.
We also have things like classes and ideas.
If I go up to I where are you.
H I J K.
There we go.
Here's the I.D. We have attributes like hidden.
So this is not a hidden element.
So it's set to false.
We have tons of other things that we're not going to get into right now but you can see that it's an
object and everything we see on this page is represented with his own javascript object.
But let's start with this one.
So we have our button Obi J and I can read the value of that button which is I'm feeling lucky.
I could also change it.
I could set it to something else.
I am not lucky.
Does anybody use the I'm Feeling Lucky.
I haven't.
Not on purpose at least.
And we can see we just changed it.
It now says I am not lucky.
So that's our first interaction with a.
The page loaded all this HMO was turned into stuff we see visually and at the same time it was turned
into JavaScript objects.
We can select and interact with those objects.
We can change them in JavaScript.
It's just like if I had an object here where I had a value set too for just call this oh and then I
said Oh Dot value is now equal to 56.
The main difference of course is that when I change 0 dot value nothing happens.
Oh is different.
But there's no side effect.
The browser doesn't care.
It's not changed.
But when I change one of these objects from the DRM there is an impact.
It's reflected in what we see.
So changing this javascript object is linked to seeing that change in the page.
So when we change a style when we change the text when we add new elements we do it through JavaScript
objects and then the browser knows about it the browser knows hey this thing just changed.
I better update it for the user or in the browser so that we can see that change.
And we'll try one more fun mildly fun thing not not exceedingly fun.
We're going to add an event.
So when I hover over this button I want to console that log something or change the text although it's
already being changed here.
We get this nice animation that's from Google.
We're not going to deal with it.
So why don't we just start by alerting something.
So we have our button object B10 Obi J.
And again this is something we haven't seen before.
But we will see it.
So we're not going to go into detail here but this says at an event listener ups add event listener
to the button the event we're listening for is a mouse over and then here's the function I want to run
when I do mouse over and I'll just do an alert.
Hi OK.
Let's see what happens.
There we go.
I get high every time I hover over that button anywhere else.
It doesn't change nothing happens but I go over that button.
We get a nice alert so we can replace that code with anything else.
Usually we don't alert.
We might change the content of the button.
We might instead.
We could I mean we could do anything.
We could change the color.
We could add new elements to the page.
We could delete every single thing from the page.
We could animate things.
We could send a request to get information from an API.
It doesn't matter what we do.
But the point here is that we can do it.
We can run code when an event happens or when it occurs based off of a particular element.
In this case that button.
So we will get to events in due time.
First we've got to start with the basics of the Dom and in the next video I'm actually gonna do one
more kind of fun demo where we're really going to just wreck this home page for Google.
We're going to animate everything so that it just randomly bounces around and rotates.
It's gonna be kind of fun maybe.
But if you don't feel like watching that you just want to get to code and you want to start from the
beginning.
That will be two videos from now.
The next video is just another taste of the Dom part two.
All right.
So to summarize everything we saw here the dumb document object model is just a bunch of objects.
Plain old JavaScript objects we've worked with them before but not ones this large not ones that have
so many methods and properties.
These are made by the browser based off of the incoming content the H2 mount and CSX other information
about a web page.
It's all turned into a javascript representation of objects that we can use we can interact with and
we can change.